you're getting more viewership than Food
Network there's always a huge mess
is this going to burn Madness everywhere
you have over 3 billion views 10 million
subscribers 75 products in Walmart we
cover most everything you need in the
kitchen which blows my mind how much
does this cost
35 70k 150k does ever get NRA to invest
that much in a YouTube channel that was
an impossible goal to me the way I do
voice over see I'm putting on my radio
voice The Simpsons a modern spin on
ratou the tortilla Sombrero I always
hated my voice turns out people enjoyed
it I just leaned into that this is a
crap still that is so cool I can't
believe we just saw that are you serious
have you talked about this publicly um
you're very good at what you
[Music]
[Applause]
do before we get into it make sure you
subscribe and ring the bell because we
have so many big videos coming up I
can't wait to show you guys a video that
we just shot here more interviews more
Studio tours more video breakdowns
including an interview with babish plus
we're giving away signed cookbooks from
babish to three of you who subscribe and
ring the bell if you're already
subscribed you're already entered and
now back to the video Andrew thanks for
having us in your studio man thank you
so much for coming man um so how many
videos have you shot here in total we've
been here for four years now and average
I don't even know how many videos a year
I don't even know how many videos I've
made I know I don't know much at all
yeah which camera do I
address I mean you've had over a billion
views on your channel like 10 million
subscribers um it's crazy what you're
able to do from this setup what do you
think are the things when you're setting
up a kitchen for a YouTube show that are
different than setting up an actual
kitchen H it's a good question because
most I feel like most uh uh cook YouTube
cooking shows are just people in
people's kitchens so like chicken or the
egg situation but uh I think that one of
the most essential Parts is having a
table that you can shoot across that was
the angle that I started doing with
binging was I needed to figure out a way
to make a cooking show by myself so I
needed to find an angle you can't do top
down that takes a whole rig you need
stability you need you know Focus
control things that one person can't
really do um and uh you can't have you
know mul multi-cam setups you need
people operating the cameras so having a
fixed angle straight across the the um
uh straight across the table with the
ability to view and record separately
yeah we got the monitors there that was
F first year of doing the show I was
running around the side the side of the
table and hitting record on the camera
running back and hoping it was in Focus
um so uh having a tble you can shoot
across is essential and having space to
the left and right of the active
production area where you can make a
huge mess because there's always a huge
mess at the end of the day no matter how
much you're actively trying to you know
keep things organized oh wow CU When I
see your shots it's so cinematic and and
I like that you put the mess up in there
um but you're saying that these are the
areas that we don't see that have more
of their if if you deviate outside of
the 35 degrees of visibility here you're
going to see caffin you're going to see
just just Madness everywhere and that's
it's kind of like me like I I I try to
put my best foot forward on the show but
I also do show like you said the
mistakes yeah just take me through like
some of the things because it seems like
a very thoughtful space well thank you
uh the environment has changed four
times now this is the fourth kitchen um
and this place was just a uh a rental
garden apartment and we had to pretty
much tear everything out and start from
scratch with most of it there wasn't a
giant six spner Viking you know stove
top here with uh ventilation when we
moved in this all had to be installed
all the peg board in the back wanted to
do like a goth Julia Child so it's all
the black pegboard they had to
completely tear out the kitchen and put
in this much more stripped down
industrial style kitchen to do all the
prep work and the research and whatnot
um and uh over here this is a knife that
my my my dad had made for my mom back in
the 70s and so now it's mounted on the
wall this you know it's really cool to
own Roundstone Brooklyn but there're
still pretty narrow buildings it's not
very production friendly so you guys are
you know you have about what 3 4T of
play there behind the cameras so there's
not much room to maneuver in here so we
needed to build things that sort of move
along a a production line kind of like
things could be prepped and measured
over here made over here set up to cool
over there uh it it was really a trial
and error process because we moved in
here and it was quite different we had
to sort of figure it out as we went
along but yeah how many products do you
have now babish or babish can I call you
Andrew B people call you the you call me
you call me Andrew that's fine you can
call me whatever you want um uh uh I
don't know the number of SKS we're up to
now I think last last I checked we were
approaching 75 80 different SKS you have
75 different products we we cover most
everything you need in the kitchen at
this point like most tools you could
outfit a kitchen almost entirely with
with our stuff wow um there's you know a
dozen different knives do different pans
it's available in every Walmart now
which blows my mind every time I say it
I never would have imagined the world so
that's one of the uh lines of thought
with the bed and babish which is another
project we're working on which is uh a
vacation rental that I'm building in the
cat skills are you serious I'm dead
serious bed and babish yeah I'll show
you I'll show you pictures is this new
have you talked about this publicly
before a little bit but just just here
and there I haven't made a big announce
yet because it's almost done and I want
it to be done done
uh but the whole kitchen's going to be
outfitted with all of our products
because how many airbnbs have you gone
to that have a functional kitchen not
many exactly because even if you have
the best kitchen in the world they put
two pans and a dull knife in there
because they don't want to mess up their
good stuff but we make our own so I'm
going to have we're going to have sharp
knives and functional tools ready to go
and what a brilliant way for people to
try the products low stakes way fall in
love with it and then go to nearby
Walmart yeah no I mean I to think about
that that's a good idea
you definitely thought about this U wow
75 I mean I think it's so smart because
now I feel like Creator starting
products is becoming the thing you've
been doing it for a while but this is I
think one of the most seamless
Integrations into the actual content so
it doesn't feel like you're shoving
something in our face yeah we rarely if
ever advertise the cookware on like you
know buy the cookware now I just show
like we I'm I'm cooking and you can just
see a flash of that and if you're
curious enough to S type babish into uh
Amazon there it is yeah it's amazing I'm
wondering like what does an average
shoot day look like while you're here I
don't know if there is an average shoot
day just because the ask for each video
is so wildly different either I'm making
something that needs to ferment for
several days before being smoked for
eight hours or whatever or I'm uh taste
testing every Campbell Soup or you know
just we're making a a cake the episode I
just finished editing was um Great
British Bake Off they uh made the
chocolate cake from the opening credits
into a technical challenge I don't know
if you watched the show but they had to
make the cake in 2 hours so I tried to
do it in 2 hours didn't work so great
which is actually what I love about your
Channel I want to talk about that as
well what would you estimate this studio
like to cost because you're putting out
stuff that's getting more viewership
than Food Network like if you had to
estimate it is there a price to your
kitchen Studio here so it's hard to say
because I probably put if I had to guess
150 carry into just like getting this
place up to Cod and then the initial
Rena uh Rena Reno Ren renovation yeah
yeah uh uh uh before doing this part of
the kitchen um where you know we had
that installed we had the stuff
downstairs installed that was
probably I think it was like 60 to 70k
because again you know they're expensive
highend appliances but we tried to keep
things super barebones industrial easy
to clean easy to you know organize and
you know just industrial Chic do it ever
get um like uh nerra to invest that much
in a YouTube channel that or at that
point you're like you know we're making
it good like at that point I was making
more money year over year every year so
I was just like this will just keep
going forever uh now you know I'm a
little older I'm a little bit more
conservative at the time I was like
yeeha let's go now I'm like okay how
much is this going to cost insurance you
whatever I'm a little more cognizant but
um I was a young man I was
3 two 32 33 when you made the investment
in this place that's awesome um which
never in a million years would have
imagined that I could buy a brownstone
like that was an impossible unreachable
goal to me not a couple years prior um
for the entirety of my life and I'm
still in awe every day when I wake up in
this place and like I live here this is
nuts yeah Andrew can we see what's in
your fridge U I didn't I didn't
even look I don't know what's going to
be in here okay nothing too crazy this
is pork floss it's basically uh pork
shoulder that's been uh boiled spiced
dried and then dry fried until it's it's
basically like spun uh Cotton Almost and
we were using it for a Simpsons episode
um clav kadash okay yeah I've been
waiting to make for years and we finally
figured out a satisfying way to do it um
one single
Modelo theal um empty shelf for we must
have been cooling stuff off down here
because very rarely an empty shelf bunch
of just random produce we always have
like the basic herbs on hand lemons and
stuff that we might need um and just a a
mish mash of condiments on the edge of
expiration so so where are we now this
uh room has three purposes it is our
office it is our Green Room whenever we
have guests and this is my desk over
here you can tell by how much of a
freaking mess it is um a messy mind this
is how I feel like every Creator to some
extent is disorganized chaos yeah no
that's that's really the way you know if
you look around here that's all you see
but uh you know we we keep our trophies
and and uh accomplishment kind of stuff
out here we got the diamond play button
there uh streaming award over here so it
looks like this is your next upload on
the YouTube channel yes this is the
Great British Bake Off chocolate cake
which ends up looking like I don't know
if you watch Great British baking show
but that's that's the way it ends up
looking um and uh the way I do voice
over is it's sort of improvised sentence
by sentence like I definitely have to
take a few cracks at everything but I
don't have a I don't have a script of
anything uh if I say like okay I'm going
to add 125 g of chocolate bowlt it's
just going to be something like this
listen if there's one thing I've learned
from all my interviews with creators is
that you don't need big money or a big
team to find video ideas that break
through in fact many of the moments in
this video along with the thumbnails we
brainstorm using a new tool called
spotter studio and I want to give it to
you for free so whether you're a new
Creator who's trying to figure out
YouTube or you're growing and you want
to grow even faster spotter Studio has
so many useful tools like it lets you
brainstorm ideas by literally typing in
a few words and then letting spotter
Studio give you new variations on it
different expressions and tweaks you can
also spot outlier videos to see what's
trending so you can easily adapt it and
you can organize it all into these
project folders that help even the
messiest of creators stay organized and
when you sign up using my link below
you'll get it all for free for two
months that's a two-month free trial to
spotter Studio which is actually one
month more than you normally get if you
didn't use my link I honestly think it's
one of the best deals I've ever had in a
sponsored video and you have nothing to
lose and so much to gain by trying this
tool so hopefully you could smash it too
all right now back to the video first up
we're going to add 125 G of 52 see it's
56 not
52 are you looking at notes as you say
this or where no I just have been
looking at the recipe a lot recently got
it first up we're going to add 125 G of
56% dark chocolate to a heat proof bowl
and then I think
that's uh 100 grams of unsalted butter
and as you can see I'm putting on my
radio voice you know I my radio voice is
so quiet it only works with a mic
because you're not going to hear me if
I'm if I'm doing this in a a restaurant
or something like that how how did you
channel that Andrew cuz like you have
this amazing like like yeah almost raspy
like FM late night Bo like do you
practice that did it come naturally
people always comment on it I always
hated my voice like I never most people
hate their own voice and I I never liked
it I never thought that there was any
value to it and uh I was surprised as
anybody when uh people turns out people
enjoyed it so I just leaned into that as
hard as I could why why not bring in
editors like you you've like been
growing The babish Culinary Universe
like you've had other hosts like why why
not have somebody else do is have you
come in with the voiceover have them
like get a script ready so I've tried to
do that um
and it's a matter of efficiency and uh
miscommunication um I can put together
this was a like a f minute assembly the
bare assembly that's timed with the
music I added it to the music first
which is to my detriment that's a bad
idea um but I want my actions to sort of
like coordinate with what's happening so
like uh here's a turn in the music where
um temperature
and now i' come in at that
moment so I I try I time the actions to
the music it's just a a nerdy I I feel
so seen right now when we do our intros
we do the same thing oh that's okay
thank God the only one I mean it's it's
I feel it's a subconscious thing and
then people realize oh why did that hit
differ the music is the underlaying
reason why it's kind of like um even if
you know nothing about cars if getting
an Audi and getting a Hyundai you're
going to be able to tell which one's
more expensive you might not know
anything about cars but you can feel it
you know like so it's these little
things that I really hope even though no
people probably will never notice that
because they're only listening to me
talking I hope that subconsciously it
registers as like this is a a craft
still um and uh so I edit together with
the music first and putting together the
bare assembly to that point takes about
an hour like it's fast yeah it would
take me that long to transcode the
footage and get it to an editor and it
would take them however long it takes
them and then another hour to get it
back to me and then once I get it they
don't know what I want to talk about
they don't know the parts that the
things that I want to hit the jokes I
want to make if I like um I was
simulating that before I already did all
the voice over but here I'll show you a
moment like
um this is this is such a dumb little
moment but we're not using self-rising
so I'm going to add baking powder in
just a moment first 50 g of cocoa powder
one teaspoon of a one teaspoon of baking
soda a little thing like like like they
don't they don't know if I want to
include that they don't know if right I
don't even know if I want to include
that until I see it like I forgot that
that happened so it's not a great joke
or anything but that's an example of how
it's very hard I don't know if the show
would have the same
uh Tempo and feeling and humor if it
were pass through all those filters of
of different people um which is why it
stayed my responsibility because it just
is the most efficient way to do it and I
end up spending as much time as I would
you know an hour let's say for an
assembly to you know either change or
fix things they might have rush through
one sequence too quickly and I need to
focus on that so I can talk about it and
uh I end up spending the same amount of
time anyway so it's just like NS out wow
that's fascinating do you have another
editor who works here do you like have
other team members like here or so we we
have um we're a team of uh nine now um
so the mostly Nico uh one of our
producers sits here there's I love all
the there's a terrifying bust of me as a
as a cookie jar over there we can just
pretend that doesn't
exist don't look too don't look in in
the eyes too long or you're going to
turn into pick jar yourself so down here
is Studio
B um either I or Alvin will shoot down
here Alvin Jo Alvin Joe is a another
personality on the Chan
yeah will both of you shoot at once or
only one YouTube video is filming at a
given time oh we typically shoot we'll
both shoot at once we're rarely rolling
audio we are rolling audio if I'm doing
like you know one of those live audio
tasting episodes but other than that
we're blasting music in here and having
a good time so we'll shoot
simultaneously all the time yeah that is
the biggest loss when we're doing live
audio uh uh videos is like live action
where you're like yeah um so there's
that and there's also yeah um there's
less pressure to be on like I I I
realized recently when we started doing
these live audio videos that they take a
a lot of energy because you get like
right now you and I we're being on we're
on camera right now we gotta be on and
uh it it it it's a cost like it does
take it out of you a little bit as
opposed to just standing there and
cooking which is a little bit more
leisurely but uh uh rarely am I thinking
about the scripts when I'm shooting I'm
more thinking about like is this
going to burn oh God I need need to
pre-op this so you know just like I'm
much more harried and focused on the
actual cooking and just a that context
we're downstairs from the studio we just
were in and then the editing Bay is next
to it correct uh and then you live above
there yes and I can show you up there
too if you want but it's a it's it's
yeah it's a pretty good setup I love it
like you said separation is key yeah
between the yeah because you don't sleep
here uh you just go upstairs and then
can separate the two and my last place
which was sick it was a um a um
uh Penthouse and Soho uh I'd say 80% of
the of the square footage was used for
making content the other 20% was where I
slept and where I watched TV and even
over there that's where our editing Bas
were my editing B was and uh it it got
way too for lack of a better word
incestuous it got way too like where's
blurring the lines where do I end and
where's the channel begin and I have a
lot more to say about that later but
yeah well I would love to ask about that
interview as well starting to rasp out
here where we keep all the gadgetry and
stuff that we've accured over the years
there we go these are winter
tires uh yeah so like you know we have
to buy a lot of goofy odds and ends
sometimes uh for any given episode there
fondue pot here panini press here's a a
deli slicer gotten a surprising amount
of use out of that actually um and then
also just you know stuff that we get
sent uh Anova sent us some nice you know
new uh suid equipment and um yeah this
this is just where everything sort of
ends up just in case we ever need it
yeah this was believe it or not this was
way worse up until about eight months
ago when we did this big spring clean
and we demarcated here's cooking here's
film it was just here let's put it in
this room that's awesome well dude I'm
excited to continue the conversation on
the interview but this is just so cool
I've never seen this much detail in a
kitchen before so thank you so much I I
I'm I'm it's it's a huge relief to hear
you say that after seeing some of your
interviews and some of the insane spaces
that you've been able to see for you to
say anything nice at all about this
place is that makes me feel good